Convictions that I feel, but still hesitate to draw the conclusions from:

  - A name is given to you by someone else. It may be accepted or rejected.
  - Bands aren't important. Some songs are.
  - Growth of consciousness (spiritual growth) is important
  - Identity and community are two sides of one coin, but identity is subservient to community.
  - Moral truth is important but there is a higher order of truth, which is the order of Instinct.
  - Artists don't deserve attention. Some art does.
  - Happiness is not the goal of life
  - Dancing is mandatory

## Premises

  - The world is the totality of people, not things. Consciousness is fundamental, material is emergent.
  - People are made up of many people.
  - The Way of Life is the most important thing and the greatest gift to humankind.
  - What is most important is not to be happy. Nor to be good. What is most important is to be fully alive. This is what Nature teaches.
  - There are elements of ourselves that we can't possibly comprehend.
  - The question most to the point is, How should we live? to start asking, what is the meaning of life? or, what are the greatest values? is to skew aside the point. The answer is the Way of Life.
  - The Way of Life acting in our own life, and that of animals generally, we call Instinct.
  - Our heritage, the Way of Life, is conceived mythically as the consummation of a duality mother/father representing Nature/genetics/creativity and nurture/civilization/Tradition (approximately)

## the world

There is not an internal world and an external world, there is just the World. The World is not either real or unreal, it is the spectrum of reality. Fundamental Reality is certainly something entirely different from reality, absurd and incomprehensible.

It is possible that Fundamental Reality is periodic in nature, or that it is static, or eternally changing into new form. In contrast, our psyches, that is, the World, do not really change that much very quickly, and we repeat cyclically.

===

  - Souls are not visible to the eyes, but they are visible to other souls.
  - The most important and special thing about a Being is the ability to be present.
  - For a long time, it has been possible to construe the value and uniqueness of conscious beings as their    intelligence. This is evaporating quickly.
