3/20/20

What humans yearn for is a relationship with Mother Nature and Father Nature.

The feminine is mythically typical of the active principle or the direct and concrete world beyond our heads—birth, death, body, material. The masculine is typical of the passive or abstract principle in the world—time, dimension, physical law. It should be intuitively obvious but bears mentioning that this has nothing to do with human genders or sexual dimorphism.

What we further yearn for is a relationship with Daughter Nature and Son Nature.

We breathe life into them and try to set them free. We try to control them and shape them but they were never really in our control. They are emanations from ourselves but they are reincarnations of Mother and Father. These children are just as varied and diverse as our heavenly parents.

We are the year marker of an ancestral consciousness, the cross point of a cosmic chiasmus.

In the sense that we always act out of our nature, we do not have free will. In the sense that the nature we act out of is our own, we do.

This is true if our nature is understood to be something given to us that exists prior to and independent of us. This proposition is questionable at best. Do we have free will? do we have an inherent nature? These questions are confounding because they are ill-formed.

I think this may be an example of the abstraction or identity error at play, the fallacy that rots so much of Western philosophy—the notion that a = a.

---

2/11/20

I feel scared to write about god, or the goddess, as in a strange way i feel i've only recently come to know her, and don't really know her well at all yet. and i feel childish perhaps, because it has nearly been since i was a child that i wrote seriously about or for god. even for a while as i remained a christian in my teens, my "faith" was fully intellectualized and removed from much any "personal relationship" with the deity. in fact this is something i long felt privately embarrassed about. i really couldn't relate very well when my coreligionists would describe their personal experiences with the deity. it didn't ever make a lot of sense to me to have a personal relationship with a palestinian jew who was executed two thousand years ago by the roman empire. i'm sure i would have loved the guy if i'd ever met him and we ever had any way of understanding each other. but i didn't.

from my early childhood, though, i had more intuitive experiences of a relationship with a great being. generally these slowly faded through my adolescence and then my twenties, and only began to re-emerge slowly towards the end of that decade. but what is kinda funny to me is that for me this deity is not god but goddess. i feel like she's a real lady of some sort, though perhaps only a psychic projection—and in a sense, what am i or anyone but a psychic projection? because we aren't exactly the same as our bodies—but vastly more powerful and beautiful than any other mortal being. she lives in me and through me and through others around me and through all living things. possibly through the whole earth or solar system, or an even broader scope. is goddess as great as galaxy? as universe? i do not know.

she is the reason i'm living at the place where i am living now (3117 warsaw). she is the reason i just recently and unexpectedly became vegetarian on samhain ad mmxix. the reason i can't eat meat is because none of this meat anywhere around here has been sacrificed appropriately to her, and so is unclean for me.



