---
---
		what is beauty
		but a game
		we play?

		what is heaven
		but a thing
		we say?

		introspection
		wastes the light
		of day

		============

		society's machines, we're the living dead
		everything worth saying has already been said
		life is like a race that cannot be won
		death drives us on, there's no choice but to run
		this too shall pass

		the sun rises in the glory of her dawn
		shines upon the earth and all of its spawn
		makes the children happy and the mothers glad
		everyone rejoices, not a person is sad
		laughter fills the air and of the peoples' ears
		warm hearths are melting all our griefs and our fears
		this too shall pass

		tye noble bird that sails the sky
		the filthy pig within its sty
		these too shall pass

		==============

		what is this flesh that binds me,
		and fetters my soul to ashes?
		from my skin, my blood, can i ever be free?
		no more my soul rages and thrashes
		it is dying inside of me
		what hope has my miserable spirit?
		there is only one way to be free:
		yet this way, o lord, how i fear it!

		my flesh must be cast into death,
		rot in the bosom of the earth,
		robbed of sight and warmth and breath
		then might i dream of rebirth
		but i cringe at the thought of death
		would i lose my fettered soul as well,
		robbed of sight and warmth and breath?
		would my captive soul fall if its prison fell?

		o god, where is your abundant life?
		death is all that i can see:
		maybe plague or famine or flame or the knife
		i don't much care however it should be
		now in my flesh there is life
		but this life is death for my soul
		flesh, ashes, blood, sight, breath, a knife!
		requiem let the bells toll

		is there no way to have both
		the flesh and the soul in peace?

		=========

		inside of my skin
		this labyrinth of sin
		all i see is dust
		ashes and rust:
		it'll all burn away
		i've got no more to say

		==========

		no blood in the dark
		sunlight is eating me
		beating me
		down to the ground where i'll stay
		everyday
		till i die
		the dead do not cry
		tears will not rise to the sky
		fly
		they must
		fall to the dust
		bins of rotten flesh
		will hold all the earth caught in the mesh
		of life and death
		gasp for breath
		the brightest nights the darkest days
		the prophet says not always

		==========

		the hour of fire, of flames that burn and flames that kill
		look at the man crucified at the hill
		who lying entombed in judea is still
		breathe in the air of the sky that they fill
		with the breath of the dead and the moans of the ill

		=========

		and even when slow years
		like humble pilgrims have passed
		and even when our lives
		so frenzied, mindless, have fled
		when sinews snap and bones
		all into dust dissolve
		when your bright-beaming eyes
		my sea, my sky, the stars
		that guide me on my way
		shall darken as they sleep/lie
		locked in the coffin's night

		========

		sometimes there are no words to say
		here comes the sun at break of day
		joyfully bouncing off shining knights
			in noble armor
		and catching the birds in the midst of their flight
		it makes shadow-pictures deep in the forest
		and drinks up the squatting mist
		suns, and birds, cooling their wings
		in mist of the forest, and shadow-things
		that my words cannot explain,
		ever unexplained forever remain
		mysterious mysteries unto the sane
		who never will figure them out in their brain
		sometimes the sun--breaks through the day
		sometimes there are no words to say

		sometimes our quick souls their words do say
		here come the shadows to break the day
		bidding the stars to shine off the night
			in noble ardor
		inspiring our blind eyes to dream they have sight
		let lullabied mist dreams come sit on the forest
		and quiet the bird songs together, once chorused
		with a nymph mystery who sings
		insanities of suns and shadow-things
		and the raincloud-borne raindrop (who cranes)
		wonders (his ears to the wonderful strains
		of her song) if a chorus of poets, all wracking their brains
		could think well to think up such beautiful pains
		as sometimes our quick souls do see everyday
		here come the shadows to hear what they say.

		====

		silence! silence! all i hear
		a dull buzzing in my ear
		pulsing, beating heart is dead
		that lived down deep within my head
		my soul! my soul! lost it now
		i know! i know! not what nor how

		one night! one night! blacker than coal
		yet brighter--yes brighter--much more than light
		a moment--one moment-silence the soul
		forever and ever a moment ago

		that tells us--it told us--we thought we were more

		i feel that, i feel that it never was there
		twas not but some twitches just under my hair

		i know it! i know it! i did have a soul!
		i know that i thought that i did have a soul

		========

		hail the mist, and see the break of day
		the rosy fingers of the dawn
		drive away the stars

		now hail the mist that rises to
		a flame that it will never reach
		that resurrects the drops of dew
		and gives a gleam to each
		the flame that scorches my horizon
		with its golden touch