---
---
I was born in 21 February 1989 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Until I was one I lived on
Riddle Rd in Clifton. My parents took me to Price Hill, where we lived first on
Elberon Ave. My sister Polly was born while we lived there. Once my second
sister Morrison was born we moved to Fairbanks Ave in 1992. When I was seven, in
the summer of 1996, we moved to Manss Ave. My parents still live there.

When I was eighteen, in 2007, I began attending the University of Cincinnati,
and I moved onto campus, living in Turner Hall for two years, returning to my
parents' in Price Hill each summer. At the beginning of my junior year,
September 2009, I moved to Marshall Ave. I lived there for two years and then,
in 2011, moved to McMicken Ave in Fairview, on the edge of Clifton and
overlooking the Brighton Approach and Western Hills Viaduct. I lived there for
about nine months and then, in 2012, moved to Quebec Rd in South Fairmount on
the edge of Price Hill and quite close to my parents. After a year and a half I
moved to Northside in 2014. I lived first on Jerome Ave for a few months and
then moved to a house on Hamilton Ave by Rockford Pl across from Greater
Bethlehem Temple Apostolic Church.

---

Frederick B. Suhre, farmer, my grandfather, passed away at 11.50p, wednesday,
may 22, 2013 at his home in Brookville, IN. He was born april 28, 1922 in the
same farmhouse where he died.

He farmed up until his death. He had been preparing for this year, but had not
yet started planting when, a week ago the last saturday night before he died, he
had a stroke--complications of which caused his death. His son hired another
farming family to finish the fields. It started raining just as he passed
peacefully away.
