March 2024
==========

This is the first installment of my digital journal.

29 March
--------

### Day's Activities

Worked at the coffeeshop, Northside, closed. Ran a few supplies down to OtR after closing, brought back some Amaretto syrup for NS. Came home, fed the cats, made dinner, started my new digital journal.

Rae Fisher stopped by the coffeeshop. We discussed plans for a show on 7/3. This will be part of my Pop Empire residency at Motr in July. A friend of Rae, Julia Blair, had been in touch with her about playing a show in Cincinnati around that time. Rae proposed adding her to the bill for that date, and sent me her spotify profile. I quite enjoyed what I heard. That exchange having been a couple days ago, I confirmed with Rae today that putting the three of us on the bill for 7/3 is our plan.

I considered my options for using a social media management service for PE stuff. Seems like you could get something pretty good for scheduling and bulk preparation of posts for around $10/month and up.

#### workout

|Lift       |Reps   |Weight |
|-----------|-------|-------|
|Squat      |2x10   |119    |
|RDL        |2x10   |119    |
|Pullover   |2x10   |46.5   |
|DB Bench   |2x10   |46.5   |


### Thoughts about CDs

It's been on my mind for some time, that I should articulate my reasons for promoting compact discs as a format for music playback and archiving. The topic came up sideways in conversation with a couple regular customers at the coffeeshop today, and I was reminded again.
Generally, the context for this conversation is comparison with vinyl as an alternative format.

#### characteristics of CDs

 - there is no loss of information with playback, or even with a certain degree of physical degradation. a perfect copy can be made an indefinite number of times.
 - high quality playback mechanisms can be manufactured inexpensively. a modestly priced cd player of sufficient quality should sound essentially indistinguishable from a very expensive one.
 - copies can be made with inexpensive consumer technology.
 - compact discs are indeed _compact_, at least by the standards of centuries before the 21st. their cases are generally about 5" square, a small size for a book or display of visual art.
 - nobody really seems to like jewel cases.
 - you generally get good bang for your buck buying used CDs, even without considering the archival value if you have the option of copying the disc's information.
 - it is quick and easy to select a specific track for playback. If your player has a display for the track time, it is fairly easy to scan to a specific moment within a track, though it is not always possible to start playback at a specific time within a track in a single step.

#### characteristics of vinyl

 - there is some loss of information with every playback cycle and in direct proportion to the amount of physical degradation of the medium. copies involve a similar measure of entropy, so that successive generations of copies lose the virtues of the original.
 - copies cannot be made with accessible consumer technology.
 - high fidelity playback is a rather difficult engineering accomplishment, and various compromises must be made in economical consumer turntables. thus, to a certain degree, you get what you pay for, and the highest fidelity playback is reserved for those who have access to expensive phonograph equipment.[^1]
  - vinyl records tend to be more collectible than many other media. some retain their value well, and some can even be worth a great amount.
  - large 12" and 7" formats give a nice canvas for prominent artwork.
 
 
[^1]: on the other hand, sometimes you don't get all that you pay for, and this is especially true in the realm of audiophile technology. 

## 30 March

### Daily Recap

Worked. It was the Northside Record Fair today, which has sometimes made us stupid busy, but it didn't dramatically affect us this time.

Went to Shake-It Records with Harris. Used a few very old gift cards. Got a handful of Blues/R&B CDs and a compilation vinyl of early Lead Belly with narration by Woody Guthrie (*Good Mornin' Blues*).

 - Ray Charles, *The Ultimate Collection* [3 discs]
 - Robert Johnson, *The Complete Recordings* [2 discs]
 - Willie Dixon, *I Am the Blues*
 - Buddy Guy & Junior Wells, *Alone & Acoustic*
 - Various, *Classic Blues: from Smithsonian Folkways Recordings*
 - Donna Summer, *Endless Summer*

Harris got a couple books, a CD, and a few DVDs, including *Barbarella*.

### Pump Organ

Two days ago I acquired a Gulbransen parlor reed organ. From what I have been able to ascertain so far (not much reliable information yet) it is an early model, made possibly as early as 1928.

It came from an acquaintance of my dad's, someone in his spiritual direction class who was preparing to move to Maryland. The organ had been in her childhood home, she had practiced on it with her sister for their piano lessons. That was in Arizona, years ago, as this former owner is around my dad's age, perhaps a bit older. It has been largely neglected since then, but it is not in terrible shape. It was quite dusty and dirty, with numerous cosmetic blemishes, but nearly all of the reeds produce sound. Its voice is quite beautiful, sweet, blending.

#### Digital Hymnals

One curious thing I came across in my preliminary research about Gulbransen and the origin of this organ is a type of musical device known as a *digital hymnal*.

Gulbransen had already established itself as a prominent maker of player pianos (perhaps the largest?) by the time they started producing pump organs in 1928. They continued to be an influential and innovative maker of organs (especially for the home market) for several decades. They were bought by CBS in the 70's along with everybody else (Fender et al). Before long the company had split off again, and continued on thru the 90's as a significant player in the realm of MIDI piano integration, computer based hardware synthesis, and digital hymnals.

from [https://digitalhymnal.net]

 > A digital hymnal is an electronic hymn player that provides a wide selection of traditional hymns and modern worship songs.

 > As well as churches, the digital hymn player is widely used by Schools and Colleges, Chaplaincies in the Armed Forces, Prisons and Hospitals, Retirement Homes, Retreat Centers, Christian Holiday Centers, Cruise Liners, Crematoria and private individuals.

Essentially, they are portable MIDI playback devices with a large repertoire pre-programmed in, and a variety of controls for customizing the arrangement and voicing of the prepared tunes.