Monday morning, i�ve just opened the coffeeshop--this week seems to be getting 
off to a slow start--nobody at all and i�ve been open for 15 minutes. i have to 
check the time and carefully think about it for a moment� 07:16� and yes, we 
open at 7am. and yes it is monday alright. three young black schoolkids walk 
along past the front door--i eye them as they eye me--eye contact with one 
little boy. i feel almost that we are both relieved to discover or remember that 
we have nothing to do with each other, owe each other no particular social 
duties or frivolities. after all, it is quite early still, and both our days 
will demand plenty of human interaction from us. but these young ones are 
followed by two somewhat older, highschoolers perhaps, or middleschoolers at 
least, a boy and a girl. the boy pauses as he reaches the front door, looks in, 
his eyes and body seem to intimate that he is about to come in. i am on guard 
now--not unfairly! [i protest to myself], for i have already observed this 
morning that the tip jar has been replaced by a drinking glass--surely the old 
jar was stolen once again this saturday--is this not at least the 4th time in 
the last couple weeks? everyone agrees the situation has gotten a bit out of 
hand. and everytime it is a boy, a kid, [a _black_ kid?] who takes the jar. 
children under 16 are no longer permitted inside the premises without a parent 
or guardian. he ought to know not to come in, or else i ought to tell him, yet 
here he comes.

�you know your window is broken on the side of the building.� 


====

i don�t quite trust--it rings hollow to me--sometimes it even pisses me off--
when we, the bloc coffeeshop, claim to be there to serve the community. we talk 
about �meeting people where they are�, and we use a language of servanthood--
yet it seems to be a servanthood that extends at its maximum only to the 
relatively poor and tragically unhip white residents that occasionally come to 
patronize the cafe. ah yes, you watch jerry springer and couldn�t tell a 
cortado from a cornet, you vote republican and think frisch�s is fine dining, 
but i recognize you as a person nonetheless, and i will serve you, because i 
remember that ultimately you are a unique and precious gem. you have a name, 
too� as long as you are white. but then there is the undifferentiated mass of 
�price hill people�, and most particularly blacks. it seems like we don�t 
recognize them as individuals or strive in any meaningful way to serve them. we 
pat ourselves on the back for tolerating them drinking our free water, and we 
decry that our longsuffering patience with them should be rewarded by such 
behavior--stealing tip jars and breaking windows [dirtying excessively many 
water cups, leaving chairs pulled out from the tables and bar, mucking up the 
bathroom]. them. those kids. people in this neighborhood� who? who are they?
