---
notes: circa 2015
---
From 20-98 E 6th St

The ideological Good Capitalist believes that certain people invest themselves in increasing human production, in increasing the global pie that humanity shares—and these people rightfully reap a reward.

---

From Jacob Hoffner Park

5:55am

We only understand ourselves in a satisfying way when we interpret ourselves as engaged members of a community of fully fledged persons as complex and self-aware as we are. It is difficult these days to find and embrace that community. Surely not for lack of people -- indeed the sea of people with whom we are unable to connect or maybe just fail to connect seems often to separate and divide us from our true community. We find so many humans today fixed upon a mindless unquestioning existence as if they are intent on diverging into a new species. They are afraid rather than curious.

---

From 16 E 7th St

I stay in the jungle you don't see me in the grass

---

Fear Xenophobia

Personally I consider it shameful to be motivated by fear in most circumstances, and certainly in the current situation western countries are facing with Syrian refugees knocking on the door fleeing a complete collapse of normality. Yet we should remember that many of our leaders got to the positions they now occupy in part because of their deep connection with and understanding of fear as a motivator. Xenophobia, one can surely argue, is an old-fashioned value that is harming our communities more than helping. There are all kinds of noble-minded reasons to excise this visceral and often brutal fear. {This is the real terror in terrorism.} The reality, however, is that the fear of outsiders is deeply ingrained 

---

Noman Chomsky

Radical kleptocracy 

---

From 3101-3163 Warsaw Ave

All your dreams are lies
And nothing is real 

---

From London Village, cincinnati

I've often said —and lately since I've felt more awakened it seems even more true to me—that western philosophy got off on a whole wrong track with Plato. I have no respect for Plato, I sometimes say, which isn't entirely fair because obviously he was a brilliant cat even if he was wrong about some things and let's be honest —as it looks from here, all of those ancient Greeks were shooting in the dark. I mean, Democritus * looks pretty good for his atomic theory so long ago but really he just made a lucky guess, right? He had no way of observing what modern science has. So as long as they made theories and started laying claim to the conceptual space, some of them were going to be right and some wrong —you can't really fault or praise any of these prospectors too much, because how could any of them have known whether oil would be found under their territory, or that oil would matter to anyone. But I'm surprised at how reticent we present day people are to cast off a Plato as rubbish. Philosophers especially are prone to this error, probably because they had to read Plato and thus have to rationalize it to themselves as meaningful and worthwhile. And to be sure, studying the history of errors in any technical or academic field can be interesting and worthwhile, but only to a certain degree.

I feel like Plato's cave resonates with so many people because he was really on to something there, yet the way he took us, or the way people interpreted him was to lead us in the wrong direction: further into the cave, rather than out of it. And maybe the essential error was in imagining that we could get out of the cave at all. 

---

From Alden Aly

  I know where I'm going at all times 
  [overheard on bus]

{this was loudly spoken by a gentleman who had been snoozing on the bus and to whom another passenger had issued some rousing inquiry}

  i know where
  i’m going at all times
  overheard on the bus
  loudly spoken by the gentleman passed out
  to whom a passing passenger
  issued some rousing inquiry

  i know where i’m going
  at all times

---

From Jacob Hoffner Park

Complaining about taste is a way for some of us to rationalize the reality that many or most people do not share our same values in this or that. The complaints are basically vulgar and ineffectual unless they resound with another person, some third party perhaps.

And we find that there does seem to be a characteristic experience here—of a body feeling—disgust, aversion, then denial and denouncement with attendant rationalization and theory. People you talk to will recognize the experience of just disliking something before they know why. Oftentimes they will be able to produce a more or less elaborate reason if you draw their attention to the question. They will generally not accept for long that they are simply revulsed by a thing in an immediate, visceral way, without a rationale. Their daemons will cheerfully supply them.

---

From 1601-1605 Otte Ave

Let me be known by my new mind, as the person I am tomorrow or next year or in some forgotten future 

---

Definitions & the Absurd

Definitions never did anything justice. Every debater knows that a debate must begin with definition of terms. It is gentlemanly warfare—this much shall be the battlefield, and this much shall be at stake: how uncontemporary. Now is the age of total warfare, of terrorism. Once anything is defined truth is shut out. The truth is definitions may always be challenged, questioned. To define is to agree, we shall ask questions this far, and no further.

Reference operates within a network a web of associations. There is no center or absolute or objective observer. This is the truth of reference-referential language.

When is art a matter of the creation and destruction of values, and when is it simply a function of bourgeois culture? In general the answer depends on your point of view. Nobody is really right or wrong on this point, but an upright person is obliged to take responsibility for their interpretation. 

~

The Absurd 

Human existence is radically absurd. It is among the greatest acts of defiance to behave justly in the face of a universe which is so manifestly unfair.

In the end the Absurd receives its due veneration: it is absurd that humans should create values. What biological creature concerns itself with this?

---

Albion's Seed

  "The dying time"
  Albion's Seed, ch 10, ~10:00

  "Governor Gooch"
  Ch 12, ~16:00

