---
layout: post
tags: recording introspection happiness
---

when i was young we used to write in notebooks made of paper

---

what makes a recording good?

it's mostly being at the right place at the right time. it's capturing something that's special, unique, human, powerful.

a higher fidelity can enhance the sensation of immersion in the recreated world of the recording, whether it is a recreation of a live event that took place in some definite time, or a mythical occurrence that was stitched together in a recording studio.

these two modes are quite different in some ways, but maybe they are not so different as they appear to be.

what makes someone a good recordist or audio engineer?

it is much cooler to make great recordings with limited gear, whatever was at hand, quirky or unique gear, than to have access always to very high-end equipment.

let your own ears be the judge of when a piece of gear is insufficient to the task, and then find a way to negate or minimize its defects until you can replace it with a suitable tool.

one should buy gear that meets a certain quality threshold, and is durable, dependable, able to give many years of reliable use. but one should not seek to buy the absolute "best" at any price. the best, after all, is subjective, and more importantly it is so dependent on so many small variables, whose contribution to the equation actually swamp the minute performance advantage that the "best" gear offers. that $4000 mic probably sounds extremely similar to that $1000 mic, and if it is subjectively better on some source then it is almost certainly going to be subjectively worse on some other source.

for most multi-micing techniques, it is not necessary to have matched pairs or even mics of the same model. it is enough to have mics of the same general type, and sometimes that is not even necessary.

mic choice :

ldc - sdc - dynamic - ribbon?

have fun !!! for this one requires susceptibility to positive emotions (o no!)

---

god it seems like a never-ending hassle to keep myself fed. literally, with food. this has been a theme in my life, since my teenage years. why the hell is this basic thing so difficult for me? i've repeatedly thru my adult life had my attention drawn to the fact that this is a major factor in my psychological well-being, what kind of person i am, how able i am to interact successfully with others, how able i am to keep even from wigging out entirely and fainting in dramatic style.

i like to think a lot. i kinda like nothing better. when i feel i am truly thinking, i become remarkably happy. giddy, really. it is a great feeling. it does take getting over a certain hurdle to get to that place. it is somewhat aversive to start thinking -- *really* thinking -- although it is the easiest thing in the world to start one's mind spinning. real dedicated application of thought is something different than thoughts flitting about in one's mind, which is essentially anxiety. it takes a great deal of energy (psychically or literally, physically -- here the concepts of energy are connnected) to hold thoughts in one's mind and truly do them right. but that's where the reward is.

i love when clarity comes about. i feel i spend almost all of my life in the muddle, in the haze, in the uncertainty of incomplete thoughts.

---

i stalk my lair up and down, brooding about how to find some kind of calm, some peace, some security that ever eludes me. i have become obsessed with insulating my home in some way -- applying acoustic treatment to calm and regularize the pressure waves in the air; sealing doors and windows against the weather and intruders, be they man or beast or sound or water. a thick lump grows in my throat as i hear the incessant rain beating on my roof and windows, as i hear the cars and motorcycles and pedestrians passing by on Warsaw ave, when i see and smell the signs of rodents and insects. i am obsessessed with keeping control and order in my little world, my kingdom, my castle (not really so little by some measures), and i am obsessessed with the task of controlling access to this place towards that end. ants and mice and water and extraneous traffic sounds bring chaos. when they are present, i cannot control the details of my recordings or preserve my food and delicate tools securely.

what happened to my old friend, chaos? when did this animosity between us grow up? it has become difficult to talk to you, my old friend. i feel a shudder of discomfort when you walk past. i try to force a smile. it is difficult to look at you in the eyes for more than a couple seconds. there is too much to talk about such that we could never even truly begin. better leave it alone. perhaps i could learn to love you again, become enchanted by your appearance like i once was. but it is hard to see you again when my eyes have crusted over with so many layers of dead skin.

i don't know what is going to happen. when i press record, i don't know what is going to wind up on the hard disk. when it rains, i don't know if i'm going to get wet. i might. i don't know if a tree is going to shatter my window, or collapse a hole in my wall. i don't know if i'm going to be hit by a car and all the lights go off in the middle of a breath.

i don't know if i'm going to have enough money to pay my rent.

there are other things, too. i don't know if i can pull it together enough to live the life i want to live, to go the places i want to go.

---

why did i ever start wanting to record in the first place? it was to make the musical ideas that were in my head real. i had ideas in there that were pushing eager demanding to get out. at first i didn't know at all how to express them, and there was quite a learning curve for how to use musical notes and instruments and gear etc. to achieve a desired sound. but if i could hold a desired sound firmly in mind, i could eventually come pretty close to it -- more and more swiftly as my experience grew -- and that was exhilarating. at the same time, from the very beginning, there were sounds that i would more or less stumble upon which were fascinating, and these sounds would often inspire elaboration, or find a way into existing ideas. this was fun too.

---

to live in such a way as to maximize *meaning* is a particular way to live, and not the same as living to be happy

why did jesus come back a second time after the resurrection? why did buddha return after reaching nirvana?

