---
layout: post
tags: pop-empire
---
Pop Empire is a psychedelic death boogie band from Cincinnati, Ohio, whose sound 
has been described as Echo & the Bunnymen meeting My Bloody Valentine with a 
touch of T. Rex. Pop Empire represents the primary creative output of founder, 
singer, multi-instrumentalist and recording engineer Henry Wilson, and the group 
is currently comprised by Wilson along with drummer Jake Langknecht [Sky Hank & 
the Heady Weed] and guitarist Katrina Eresman [Strobobean].

Pop Empire, once hailed as Cincinnati's best new artist and best electronic act 
according to editors and readers of local weekly CityBeat, originally crafted 
danceable art pop blending laptop beats and crunchy guitars, as witnessed in 
their debut EP *Rainy Child* and first LP *The Devil's Party*. The group played 
locally and occasionally out of town in these early years, including at Midpoint 
and Forecastle music festivals, though the primary focus was on making 
recordings.

The group added a drummer to the lineup and began to absorb the fatty sustenance 
of blues, rock n roll, and the 20th century American popular style. This 
influence was reflected in the matured songwriting of their sophomore LP 
*Future Blues*, although the live drummer was once again eschewed on the 
recordings in favor of electronic beats.

After this, the project took another turn, and while the songwriting continued 
to be heavily based on the blues and early hillbilly and rock n roll, the 
artistic focus shifted from recordings to live shows. A drummer was added once 
again, and Wilson, who had played synthesizers and triggered beats in the early 
incarnations of the live show, took up electric bass. The group now consisted of 
a classic guitar-drums-bass trio and honed a droning, steady heavy yet ethereal 
live sound. This was first presented in recorded form on their 2016 EP 
*The Violent Bear It Away*. The band also began to play out of town to a 
significant degree for the first time, though this was initially slowed down by 
personnel issues until guitarist Katrina Eresman joined the group in 2017.

With a live touring lineup finally solidified and a highly unique and compelling 
live sound developed, Pop Empire took much of 2018 and the beginning half of 
2019 to craft a collection of songs that feel personally expressive and 
fundamentally meaningful to share, and to capture these in recorded form. This 
collection of nine songs is presented in the project's third LP, entitled 
*Novena*. The record casts allusions to Cat Power, the British Invasion, 
Patsy Cline, and the proverbial dance of death in the band's unique idiolect of 
garage psychedelia. It invokes traditions from pre-Christian religious chant 
through Appalachian mountain song to angular post-industrial wasteland 
soundscapes. The compositions are built around the skeletal structure of 
Wilson's songwriting and sharp-edged vocals, and develop their identities 
through interaction with the parallel voices of the guitar and drums of Eresman 
and Langknecht, featuring waves of feedback and some playful experimentation 
with keyboards and samples.

Looking into 2020 and beyond, the band hopes to continue to share their sound 
and their songs that are at once highly idiosyncratic and deeply familiar to 
those who have been steeped in the American musical tradition. They believe they 
present a music that is dark, thrashy, menacing while also lyrically rich, 
earnest and spiritually evocative. They hope to take this as a gift to as many 
people as they can reach.
