I feel such a rush of peace and fulfillment after playing a show, it almost
makes all the anxiety worth it! The show last night went well, despite my 
feeling sick and not being in the best vocal health and not having rehearsed
as much as I would have liked. It even went well despite a temporary glitch
where my backing tracks seemed to cut out. I'm not quite sure what happened
there — my guess is that the USB flash drive that I was running my Ableton set
off of was a bit slow to deliver some of the tracks. Fortunately everything
corrected itself after only a couple seconds, and I was able to play through.

Overall, people seem to respond very well to the solo incarnation of Pop Empire.
Furthermore, a certain type of person seems drawn to want to play music with me.
After my previous solo show, at Radio Artifact, David Kelsey expressed interest
in playing with Pop Empire (he asked me what my intentions with the project are,
and Liv added that he want to play with me). After my set last night, Harris 
and David Dylan (Elyse Bealer's brother) got in a conversation with the door guy
at Motr, a kind-seeming, softspoken youngish guy named Ramsay (sp?), who told
them that he would like to play with me. A bit later, I met him too and he
recommended a musical artist to me — Cindy Lee — but he got perhaps a bit shy
and didn't ask me anything about playing music. I only later learned about that
part of the conversation from Harris.

Towards the end of the night at Motr I saw the members of Saving Escape at the
bar. I introduced myself to Lee, the main guitarist, and Charly, the bassist.
We had met briefly a couple years prior, but I hadn't remembered their names,
and I doubt they remembered me at all. Getting a chance to introduce myself 
to them again was a nice bonus to the evening.

---

### The ensemble:

- Main Vox
- BG Vox [1 & 2]
- Gtr 1
- Gtr 2
- Bass
- Synth Bass
- Drums
- Drum Machine
- Perc
- Organ
- Piano
- Synth [1 & 2]
- Sax/wildcard

---

I got fancy new phone today, a Google Pixel 7a. For now, I'm leaving my
SIM card in my old phone (not much older, a Samsung A33 5G). I've deleted all 
the social media apps off of that phone and installed them on the new one, 
which can of course only connect via wi-fi. My actual phone therefore is only
good for texts, calls, emails, web browsing, and playing media. The new phone,
which I think of as my PDA (remember those? personal digital assistants?),
is primarily a camera and social media app machine. We'll see how this goes!

---

When my anxiety goes away, I feel a quiet peace and confidence that I am on the
right path. (Haha, I started writing "wrong path" before my conscious mind
caught up with my fingers. I wonder what Freud would say.)

---

It's almost time to start preparations for mine & Harris's annual Samhain party!
I'll start with a draft list of guests to invite:

- Liv & David
- Sunny & Polly
- Audrey
- Ru & Mitchell (PGH)
- Abbey & Jack & Simon & Savannah
- Jake & Katie
- Lillian & Andrew
- Our next door neighbors
- Ann Driscoll
- Mitchell Bustillo & Molly Montvale
- Rae Fisher & David Corns
