---
layout: post
title: social connection in music
---

What most people want most out of a musical experience is *social connection*
with other people. Some people, or most people under certain circumstances,
are more internally focused in their experience of music. For many musicians,
I suspect, this is often the case. But overwhelmingly, amongst the humans the
primary way that music is *used* is to extend, enhance, and enrich the social
lives of the participants.

With this in mind, it is not surprising that in our current time the music that
is most interesting to *musicians* is not in general the most meaningful music
to people in general. 

To *participate* in music encompasses a broad range of behaviors, but the one
that is most common in our age is a new music-way which is peculiar to and 
characteristic of our age. We select and play pre-recorded segments of music.
Occasionally we accompany them with singing or dancing, but primarily we see
our role as passive or receptive. Both active and incidental listening have
always been modes of participation in music, but what we have now is a new 
hybrid form of musical participation, which is in fact much more active than
we often give it credit for.

---

I'm a bit frustrated with myself today. I've felt somewhat sick — perhaps the
beginning of some sinus infection or cold — and as a consequence I've slept in
and done almost nothing "productive" today. Hey, at least I'm getting some 
writing in — I'm doing a makeup day for a couple missed days in the past week.

Here are some of the things I would like to have done:

 - prep my set/practice for show on Wednesday
 - work out
 - get in touch with David Kelsey about jamming
 - get in touch with Celine about album artwork
 - make a promo post on social media for the show on Wednesday
 - listen to the tracks I've been sent by Kaz and Tobias
 - start digging a post hole to install the new garden hose reel

What little I *have* done today includes researching a potential smartphone
purchase. Something I already have and definitely don't *need* to replace,
although I do have a legitimate rationale for wanting to upgrade. It really
just comes down to the quality of the camera, and the way that that specific
tool would make a task like "make a promo post" above something easier for me
to do in a way that feels satisfying.

