---
layout: post
title:
---

Go down into your mind...

(continuing from 2024-10-15)

When I like a person, it's not hard to swallow that they might be successful.
But when someone whom I perceive as immature, selfish, unkind, or foolish seems
to receive accolades, I become very uncomfortable. 

If I think of Dehd achieving a considerable degree of fame and fortune, I don't
feel any particularly strong feelings, but what I do feel seems to be positive.
I am grateful for the extent of my own connection to them, and even if their
success eventually means that they don't have time for a commoner like me, I 
don't begrudge them their success. I think they are spiritually grounded people
who have a great gift to share, and it'd be great if all such people could 
find the kind of success that they have. Realistically, that will never happen
for all of them, but it's better that some pople, like Emily & Jason & Eric,
should have that success than not.

I'd love to see the Tillers achieve great material success. Jeremy Pinnell.
How amazing would it be to see Cameron Cochran able to pay for his kids' 
college tuition with the proceeds of his musical endeavors? I think that world
would be a better one.

See, I'm trying to make the case that I'm not really drowning in jealousy after
all. Rather, what I am experiencing as jealousy is in fact a reaction against
seeing people who I see as spiritually undeserving receiving the benefits of
fame and fortune, which are limited. This perception makes me uncomfortable,
triggers anxiety, and I suppose that is because it seems *unjust*.

So one thing to observe in self-reflection here is that I seem to have a lot of
internal motivation to paint my intentions and mindset as ethical — as *based*,
as they say these days.

Another thing we have dredged up here is an internal contradiction. Exploring 
the nature of *clarity* and the Clarity of Nature, we remarked that *justice*
is not a Natural concept. Yet it is motivating our affective responses.

People — even musicians and artists — don't achieve material success because
they *deserve* it. They achieve it because the conditions are right for them
to do so. America is so saturated with the myth of the Self Made Man, and 
popular music is one of the arenas where this myth is promulgated with the 
authority of a social institution. To try to understand a person's success we
put that person under a magnifying glass, under a microscope if we can manage
it. It's classic misdirection.

Nonetheless, I think there is just a little something more to *justice* than a
delusion, since it seems to be an almost universal concept among humans. I 
think that after all it does reflect something true in our own Nature which in
fact is part of what differentiates us from the rest of the Great Nature that
we participate in. I'm even so optimistic about humans that I reckon it is 
possible that, thanks to the persistence of this concept among them, human life
does tend, on average over the long haul, towards greater and greater justice.
In the scope of individual human lives, it is hardly an ironclad law that 
justice prevails, yet it does so slightly more than half the time, eventually.