---
layout: post
---

religion and the way of life
----------------------------

Take a walk in your thoughts.

My religion is to speak with clarity, precision, and succinctness—to hit the
nail on the head.

After I left Christianity, the religion of my forefathers, I eventually came to
see that the Earth is God. The Sun is God. The Universe is God. Even our own
Nature is God. All of these are linked and unified in some way, but that way is
quite beyond our comprehension. From here, the New Age would be ready to welcome
me in with open arms, yet I cannot get comfortable with the imprecision of woo
woo philosophy. It is just as off-putting to me as the hokey spirituality of
Christians who confuse the Divine with the inner monologue of their own Ego.

The Earth is God simply because this is the most effective way of articulating
something fundamental about the human condition. For the same reason the Sun is
God. Life is God. The Way of Life is God. The Way of Life gives meaning to our
actions and to our feelings. It is the fundamental Substance which our own minds
and beings give Form to, but it is also the syntax of that Form. Our
individuality is nothing without the Way of Life, literally cannot exist without
it.

The Way of Life encompasses all of the physical substrate that provides for our
existence. Really quite particular conditions are required for our persistence.
A very narrow range of temperature, pressure, and thousands of other conditions
must be maintained. That is why we only exist within a tiny crust layer of one
small planet in the entire cosmos. The profundity of Deep Space and Deep Time
are truly awe-inspiring and I believe they are critical context for everyone
who wishes to awaken spiritually.
