---
layout: post
title: "Radium Girls, Apple Spice"
---

### Radium Girls

The conceit for this song is a supernatural undead radioactive flapper
succubus consuming your soul.

### Apple Spice syrup

I created a new recipe for the Autumn seasonal syrup at Collective. The flavor
is *Apple Spice*, and it started as a flavor that Kae created for us. The
essential elements are all the same ones from that recipe, but all the details
have been changed.

The original recipe called for browning and stewing sliced fresh apples. I 
found that this seemed to extract a considerable amount of pectin into the 
syrup, as the apples were cooked with their peels and cores, which could
thicken milk in an unexpected way. I'm now using apple cider instead of whole
apples. The cider is reduced to concentrate the apple flavor. I found, however,
that simply reducing cider, compared to browning apple pieces and then stewing
in water, lacked a certain *cooked* quality which evoked apple pie more than
fresh apples, which seemed to blend more harmoniously with the warm spices in
the mixture: cinnamon, ginger, clove, nutmeg. For this reason, I introduced
caramel syrup to the recipe: I decided to replace half the added sugar with
an equivalent amount of caramelized sugar. For the spice complement, I more 
than doubled the amount of fresh ginger and nutmeg in the brew, and I used
extracts for the cinnamon and clove components. Using extracts allows me to 
have much more control over the levels of these critical flavors, and turns
out to be more economical as well, as the original recipe used a large quantity
of cinnamon sticks to achieve an appropriate level of spice.

The resulting recipe:

 - __720 ml__  apple cider
 - __120 g__   sugar
 - __180 g__   rich caramel syrup
 -  __20 g__   ginger paste
 -   __1 tsp__ ground nutmeg
 -  __16 g__   cinnamon extract
 -   __8 g__   clove extract

 *Reduce to 500 ml strained, or about 620 g*
