---
layout: journal
title: "Tuesday night"
---

I've been feeling sick since yesterday. I worked today even though I feel 
slightly worse than yesterday. I haven't really rehearsed for the show which
is tomorrow, because I feel so fatigued. This is increasing my anxiety.

I think this writing habit is starting to have some positive mental effects.
I look to it as a somewhat comforting exercise. I'm getting to the point where
I can untangle some actual thoughts, more than just rambling about the awkward-
ness of sitting down to write. It reminds me of when I was a teen, and I felt
that I could be safe anywhere, as long as I had my notebook.

How can a notebook make me feel safe? I wonder if I could find any of my old
reflections on this. One of those things that sticks in my mind, for no 
obvious reason, is a memory of writing about this very thought in my notebook
some day at NHCC (I think?). I was alone, sitting at a table, waiting for 
someone I believe. Probably Ben Walker.

This memory leads me to another memory. One time that I called on Ben Walker 
in his office. I had probably set up a time to meet with him — I don't recall
him holding regular "office hours", though perhaps he did. In any case, it may
have been the only time I met with him one-on-one in his office. That wasn't 
our typical venue. Generally we would be In the youth group classroom/common 
area, or else out somewhere in the world. But on this day I met the youth 
pastor in his office for a private conversation. All that I remember of our
conversation was asking him questions about how to compose drum parts for 
songs. Ben was a drummer, among the many other things he was, and that is the
capacity in which he had particularly important insights for me such that I had
to have a clean shot to hear them transmitted clearly.

The things I remember him telling me: Drum patterns are generally about the 
interplay of kick drum and snare (this was the essential clue that I was 
hoping for, as obvious as it seems now, in the context of the Popular Style);
and that I should get in touch with one Josh Gulley, who was a sometimes 
member of the youth group and who was musically gifted, who was composing
symphonies on his computer (*sometimes* because he was so reserved that he
rarely came out in groups or talked to anyone if he did).

I still primarily interpret most drum patterns in terms of the interplay 
of kick and snare. I did get to know Josh Gulley, and I might still have a 
couple CDs he gave me of his symphonic compositions rendered via PC MIDI
libraries of the mid 2000s.

---

Harris is so sweet. They made me dinner tonight and bought me Skyline last 
night, to help nurse me back to strength. They said to me, I wish I had 
magic healing powers. I told them, You do.

---

**Apple Spice** syrup evokes memories of fresh baked apple pie. Made from 
fresh apples with cinnamon, nutmeg, clove and ginger, it adds a wonderful
warming sweetness and makes any drink taste like Autumn in a cup. Try an Apple
Spice Latte or Apple Spice Chai Latte.