---
layout: post
title: bitterness & ego
tags: introspection nature fame 
---

Bitterness and Ego have fought with me today.

Clarity is what I wish for most of all.

If we are ever to become wise, we have to recongize how much is enough — enough
wealth, enough power, enough life — and how much is too much. We have to set 
limits.

The greatest political innovation would be to make limits on wealth
and power extremely *popular*. Obviously this move would incur the enmity of the
very wealthiest and most powerful people, but if there's one thing the power of
the people ought to ensure, it is these limits. So I think, on a societal level,
we ought to recognize limits on wealth and social influence.

The same applies on the individual level, in the interior life. How much is 
enough, how much is too much accumulation to the ego? Acknowledge that personal
property is an *illusion* and a social construct. It's a practical concept for
contemporary human interaction, to be sure, and I don't suggest replacing it.
Nonetheless one should bear in mind that it is not *real*, we just agree
to live *as if* it were true.

To see this is to gain a certain *clarity*. It is as if something that was out
of focus, blurry and indistinct, comes into focus. Your new vision allows you
to reorient yourself more accurately.

To have full clarity would, I think, be to live in accordance with Nature.

The human institutions of Property and Justice do not seem to be reflected in
Nature. Instead, She presents Balances and Cycles to us. It is not sensible to
ask of Nature, what is the most just course of action? Nonetheless, Nature
always shows a way *forward*. What is the best way forward? What is the path of
most abundant Life?

I think that in my own life, in my creative endeavors which are dearest to my
sense of Self and Meaning, I wish to be an *artist* and a *spiritual pilgrim*
more than I wish to be successful by other measures. I'm not saying this 
aspirationally and I'm even a little disappointed in saying it. I am simply 
trying to make an accurate assessment, as if from a 3rd person point of view,
of what desire is strongest in my own nature. It just doesn't seem like I care
all too much about getting money or even attention. A considerable amount of my
internal tension and anxiety is of this sort: that I feel I *ought* to care
more about these things, and if I don't it means that I am not really an artist
but rather what they call a *hobbyist*, an *amateur* i.e. a lover of the craft
as opposed to a *professional* who invariably hates it.

In addition to this, I am extremely sensitive to comparison — to *unfavorable*
comparison at least — of myself and my achievements against my peers. Does this
mean that, contrary to my reckoning in the paragraph above, I actually do care
a great deal about my success as an artist in conventional terms? This would
explain my bouts of jealous dysphoria. Yet something isn't quite adding up.

The truth is that in my heart I'm largely apathetic about the achievements of
my peers. I feel some shame about this just the same as I do about how little I
care about my own achievements. Still, I have certain *social needs* in my 
artistic expression — I need my work to be received by a certain quota of 
people, in a certain way. And furthermore, there are a lot of people that I 
dislike in some degree. In fact, this probably needs to be emphasized — I have
a low opinion of very many people and a high opinion of only a few. This opinion
makes a huge difference in how I feel about seeing signs of another person's
success. 

(continued [2024-10-16](../241016-/))