---
layout: post
title: "Historical Fiction, Albums & Singles"
tags: history music-biz
---

### Historical Fiction

The most interesting historical period to set a story in would be sometime
between the neolithic and the end of the bronze age. The human world was highly
developed and interconnected, yet so materially limited compared to our times,
and so much more heterogeneous from place to place. I'm imagining a time when,
for instance, metal tools, weapons, and ornaments are well known, but the 
processes of metallurgy are only known in a few places in the world.

Of course, the period I'm talking about covers the time when the Great Pyramids
were built, and Stonehenge, and Gobekeli Tepe. At its later extreme, it
includes the Heroic Age, the age of Achilles and Perseus. It is a time when
illiteracy was the universal norm, though writing of some kind may well have 
existed for small communities of specialists and magicians.

### Albums and Singles

Contemporary popular music is typically distributed in one of two formats:
albums and singles. These are inherited from older physical media formats,
though they continue to evolve on their own and can no longer be strictly 
identified with any physical format. Historical "singles" for instance, were
distributed on discs with two playing sides, and so the most typical 
configuration had exactly two songs per single, and A-side and B-side. The
digital single today is most commonly exactly one song (as the name suggests
in the first place!) though some singles, after the historical manner, contain
two songs — some even more, as when mutliple edits or remixes are included.

An *album*, on the other hand, originally referred to a collection of discs
which were stored together in a commong binding or container, like a photo
album. Eventually, however, the idea of the "album" became closely associated
with the Long-Playing disc or LP. This particular format of vinyl disc was 
widely mass-produced over a critical era of golden nostalgia in American
popular music culture. After a dip in popularity after the superior Compact 
Disc (CD) format was introduced, the LP has regained and retained a level of
popularity that cannot be explained by its utility or reliability, but by some
aesthetic desire amongst listeners.

LP's as a physical format are best suited to material with a runtime of 30 to
45 minutes. Perhaps for this reason, this time range is considered very typical
of an album, though in fact albums can be significantly shorter or longer. If 
there is an upper limit, it's perhaps around a couple hours, where the concept 
of an album starts to become unruly. If there's a minimum length, it's 
somewhere around 10 to 15 minutes.

The major digital music services today, Spotify and Apple, define anything
with at least 7 tracks or at least 30 minutes long as an album. They identify
anything else with at least 4 tracks but less than 30 minutes long as an EP,
an intermediate form between singles and albums. Anything with 3 or fewer 
tracks, all of which are shorter than 10 minutes, is considered a single.