---
layout: post
title: "Boredom, Dissipation, Loneliness"
tags: introspection loneliness
---

### Boredom and Dissipation

It often seems like there's not enough time in the day to get done all that I
want to. I find myself constantly falling behind goals that I set for myself.
It occurs to me in these times that I spend a certain amount of time in 
*dissipation*, and that perhaps, if I could only convert all of that time with
maximum efficiency into "productive" time, I would have enough time to achieve
what I set out to after all. Then I begin to ask myself whether I would in 
fact be "enjoying my life" if I did this — or do I need a certain proportion
of time to dissipate, to lounge around, watch youtube, jerk off? When I come
home from work, or when I wake up on a day off, the *comfort* of these 
behaviors beckons to me. 

Here we've got the dichotomy of the experiencing self and the remembering self.
My *experiencing* self is rewarded by these pointless activities, while my
*remembering* self gets nothing from them. I think mention must also be made
here of the interesting connection between boredom and creativity. Boredom is
often the fertilizing soil of creativity, but it is hard to be bored if you
feel that you have a couple years' backlog of *work* in front of you and 
every hour not spent chipping away at it is essentially wasted. In this way,
these expectations of accomplishing so much undermine opportunities to be 
bored, to have no purpose other than fun, and this actually leads to 
dissipating behaviors to address the need for some escape, some concession to
human frailty.

What would it be like if I said to myself, "You are fully caught up on all your
side hustle work"? Interesting to note, I find this almost inconceivable. That
in itself seems to tell me something. On the other hand, it is somewhat of the
nature of my side hustles, i.e. trying to be a public musical artist, that the
work is never really all done. It never ends, and that's a good thing, but in
accordance with nature it should have *cycles*. These cycles should accord with
my own nature, as they are rightly a reflection of it, and so it ought to be
that about as often as I fall behind the wheel of my goals, I get ahead of it.
That does not seem to be the case for me!

I have all these things I want to accomplish habitually, namely:

 - my [day job] work responsibilities
 - working out for physical fitness
 - writing (for mental fitness)
 - practicing music
 - working on promotion & business affairs for my musical project
 - improving my home

I want to establish cycles of expectation for these endeavors that suit my 
nature and environment.

---

### Loneliness

This is a topic that will probably require occasional self analysis throughout
these freewriting sessions. I have often remarked that *loneliness* is the
hallmark of my internal life. I can't fully explain how I justify this. To
try to say a bit more precisely what I'm talking about in the first place,
it's that I feel have very few intellectual companions in my journey, and for
significant portions of it I have none at all; and furthermore, on a more
concrete level, I am a person who has many social *connections* and who is in
fact very well liked in a general way, yet whom very few people actually wish
to spend time with. It's like I'm trying to say, there's not many people who
would come to my birthday party. There's not many people who would make time
to hang out with me just for the sake of spending time with me.

A major contradictory indication that I have to account for in this mindset is
that there is very little time in my day-to-day life where I wish another 
person would enter into interaction with me when there is none. I cherish my 
time alone.