---
layout: post
tags: philosophy free-will
---

in true freedom there is no free will

to be truly free means to submit
  - to god
  - to love who is lord of all
  - to nature

to be truly free means to live fully by instinct

thus freedom is un-freedom, submission, slavery – very well. but can you say
the converse? slavery is freedom? it seems perverse to say this

yet what many religions and philosophies teach is that perfect devotion *of a 
certain kind* is the path to true freedom

---

the thought that is most freeing is to know that you have no free will

to relinquish the desire for control is to be fully oneself

---

how would you tell the difference between 
someone like us, as we perceive ourselves normally to be,
who are born, live for a while, then die and cease to be,
and someone who comes into and out of existence a half thousand times per second,
billions of times over and over,
and each time they return to existence in much the same form as they had before,
but perhaps slightly different?

---

what good is free will
if you had it once
and now you must live with the consequences of your actions?
was it the same *you* who made a choice then?
you can share memories with that person but you cannot inhabit their immediate
experience, feel what they feel, anymore than you can inhabit the experience of
a separate individual.

of course, it *was* really you, because it is utter nonsense to speak as if 
every millisecond a person was a new person — that does not serve the purpose
for which we generate the concept of a *person*. it is nonsense but perfectly 
logical. therefore, you do indeed have free will, but not the *you* that you
*are*, but the you that you were or will be. A person's free will is a perfectly
natural part of a type of explanation of a causal chain of events. It is not
something you *have* as an experience being.