---
layout: post
tags: recording organ
---

Today I recorded a bit of Hammond organ for Bridget Battle's upcoming solo
album. We worked with John Hoffman at the Lodge in Dayton, Kentucky. It was fun
and I think it went quite well. We recorded organ on one song called "Tight Rope"
and on the intro of another.

We recorded in the control room of the Lodge, which had been extensively 
developed since the last time I was in there (ten years ago?) 
For "Tight Rope" I primarily used the "Praise 1" preset (Bank D preset F) for 
bridge/chorus parts. I also used the "Henry 1" preset with percussion turned off
for a minimal accompaniment during the second verse. I used my Mini Vent rotary
sim pedal, while John tapped also the direct signal from my Hammond XK-3 as well
as a live re-amped version through an AC30 in the tracking room below us. He
ran the various organ tracks through outboard EQ and compression, including an
API stereo compressor and a Manley Vari-Mu. He made the organ sound great.

For the second song, we just recorded a droning C note through the intro.
I slowly built the sound up towards a relatively full organ from silence by
pulling drawbars and using the expression pedal. I started with basically a jazz
organ but not all the way pulled out to 8. I slowly and gradually added higher 
harmonics, first the middle then the highest, slightly favoring the white 
drawbars. The rotor was on fast.

---

The *organ*, as a complete instrument of human musical expression, comprises 
three keyboards (among other things). Two of these keyboards are played by the
hands – they are called *manuals*. The third is played by the feet – these are
the *pedals*. Some instruments have more than two manuals, but these exist 
solely to provide the performer with a greater timbral variety. organists are
not expected to play more than two manuals at once, and since the timbre sounded
by a manual can be altered, no more than two are strictly necessary.

The manuals of the organ have names to differentiate them. The lower one is 
called *Great* and the upper one is called *Swell*, and I love the positivity
of this nomenclature.

With uncharacteristic positivity, organists use the names *great* and *swell*
to refer to the lower and upper manuals, respectively.

If there is a third manual below the first two, it is probably called the 
*choir* or *accompaniment* (on theatre organs). If the third manual is above,
it is probably called *solo*. Some organs may include both of these additions,
and sometimes fourth or fifth manuals called *echo*, *orchestral*, *antiphonal*,
or any number of foreign names.

When you can use a pedal to make the sound elicited by a given manual softer or
louder, that manual is said to be *under expression*.

Many guitarists are unaware that the origin of their volume pedals and wahs
as expressive tools goes back to the incredible medieval organs, which were
more complex than any other man-made system until the telephone exchange.
On pipe organs, these expression systems might use a pedal to rotate a series 
of slats like window blinds that enclose a whole room of pipes. The sound of 
those pipes is muffled and quieter when the slats are rotated fully closed,
and when the pedal is fully depressed in the other direction the slats are 
maximally open and the sound is maximally loud and clear. This was a standard 
feature on organs by the time that the tonewheel organ was invented, and 
Hammond incorporated an electronic version of this control into their organs.
