---
layout: post
---

*Blues* denotes primarily a vocal style, particularly the style(s) of
african american secular music which originated after the civil war.

Blues came to be accompanied, and to proliferate into many style variations.

*Country blues* is blues made by people, originally african americans, living
in the country, i.e. not in large urban centers. For much of the history of the
blues, up until the great migration, the considerable majority of blues 
musicians—and americans at large—lived in rural areas.

Country blues may be further differentiated by indicating which rural area it
was made in. *Delta blues* is the most well known of such, being the music made
in the Mississippi "delta" (it is not a true delta in geographically, since it
is not actually where the river meats the sea, but it is an area that is 
ecologically very similar to a delta, and has been called such for generations.)
There is also *Mississippi hill country blues*, *Texas hill country blues*, and
myriad others.

There is also *Piedmont blues*, which is still country blues but it has a hint
of urbanization.

Classically, the country blues is most often represented as purely vocal, either
solo or ensemble, the latter often in the form of call and response voices; or
vocal accompanied, typically by banjo or guitar. Solo performers accompanying
themselves are perhaps most typical, with duos being most common after that, and
groups tending to stay rather small (though larger ensembles did exist, and
likely formed quite frequently in loose affiliation something like a *jam*).

Then we have the *Chicago blues*, and by this point of course we are no longer
in the country blues—we have moved on to city blues. The urbanized blues is
naturally associated with electrification, though it is not synonymous with
electric blues. In the city, electricity was always at hand and very useful in
cutting through the noise of urban settings, where in the country it was not
always available or financially feasible.

*Boogie woogie* is a dance piano style. It is power piano, the loudest and most
forceful instrument in the original arsenal of country blues. It is often 
contrasted with *stride piano*, which has many similarities but also a few
distinct technical differences. They are like two parts of a stream which 
diverge and then recombine.

Stride piano was developed as a way to play *ragtime* music on the piano (again,
powerfully for dancers). Ragtime music has ragged time, that is to say it is 
parlor harmony with syncopation and also an occasional blue note.

Boogie woogie was later adapted, with great succes,
to the guitar and then the electric guitar.