---
layout: post
title: preface for a collection of songs
---
 
I should like to appear before you as Oz the Great and Terrible, manipulating the
levers and dials of your psyche with awesome power.
Songcraft, like it's children Playing an Instrument and Mixing Audio, is an art
of illusion.

My malevolent desire for control prevents me from maintaining the facade and 
forces me to pull back the curtain. I insist on tampering with the context in 
which you perceive these songs.

The essence of magic is moving past illusion.
It turns out I am just a lonely old man.

---

My discovery of Jekyll and GitHub pages this past Fall has precipitated an 
outpouring of creative energy, and I am extremely thankful. I have not felt this
excited about website building since my high school years, and I am reminded
of the encompassing intellectual project that a website can represent for me.

Composing a collection of documents in HTML, a digital tome or library, is an
intellectually satisfying long-term project for me.

I am reminded, too, that one of the most compelling reasons I comitted myself
to the study of and pursuit of excellence in *music* was the perception that I
would never grow bored in this endeavor. Intellectual boredom and a resultant
zig-zag path through life felt like something very much to be avoided. I believe,
looking back from this point in my thirty-sixth year, that I have so far avoided
this fate successfully. Yet I have lost some of my initial focus in lamenting
that my straight line has not carried as far as I would like it to have.

