---
layout: post
---

I have a confession. I find being a musician to be incredibly hard, and I fear
that I am headed for a dead end. It is absolutely not any technical aspect of 
being a musician that is so hard. I find the actual work of practicing an 
instrument, composing music, and collaborating with other musicians to be
inherently rewarding. It is indeed very challenging to excel in a field where
so very many greats have gone before, but I have never truly doubted my ability
to find my niche and excel at my own craft. I don't expect ever to be a 
virtuosic guitar player, nor indeed a virtuoso at any instrument, but that is
not at all what being a musician is about, in my view of things. Rather, what I
find so hard is fighting the despair that comes from feeling unable to reach 
people's ears, minds, and hearts; from feeling trapped in a community of 
backbiters and syndicators; from feeling overwhelmingly alone when I turn my 
insides out; from being unable to communicate my message effectively even to my
close friends.

I believe that music has the power to do the utmost human good in people's lives.
Yet in today's world, where music is ubiquitous, richer and more diverse than at
any other time in history, where is all the good that it is supposedly doing? I 
believe that there is plenty there, but I also believe that the greater part of
music's potential good has been effectively and cunningly subverted by music's 
capitulation to self-glorification and self-gratification. Music's power is 
utterly neutralized when musicians are convinced that they deserve to be stars.

I admit my deep frustration in my efforts to find an audience for my music has 
two faces: on one hand, as I have described, I am frustrated and distrustful of
the music industry and musical communities at large, including the broader 
music community in Cincinnati; on the other hand, my most despairing thoughts
tend to fixate on memories of feeling undermined and betrayed by my own closest 
collaborator at the time, and a long-time friend. I no longer work with this
person musically, and our friendship has largely recovered, but they have never
acknowledged the hurt that they caused me. I am unsure which of these two sides
of my despair is having a greater influence on me.

---

Pop Empire has been the name of my musical project and primary creative outlet 
since 2009. It has taken several different forms in that time and gone through a
handful of personnel changes. Besides myself, for the past ten years the project
has included Jake Langknecht, primarily as a drummer. Among the various lineup
formations we have used over the years, a guitar-bass-drums power trio format 
has been the most typical.

Starting in 2010, we have released three full-length albums and two EPs. These
have all been self-released. On the strengths of our first EP and full-length,
CityBeat named us "Best New Artist" in 2010 and "Best Electronic Act" in 2011.
In my opinion, our next three releases after these were significant evolutionary
improvements in both our sound and songwriting.

The project has wandered between being electronically-driven and a straight
ahead rock n roll power trio. I feel that with this latest album, we have truly
found our footing straddling both styles.

Our most significant sonic influences include The Jesus and Mary Chain, The
Kills, Black Rebel Motorcycle Club, The Black Angels, Suicide, The Raveonettes,
and Massive Attack. In terms of songwriting, however, the greatest influences
include Hank Williams Sr., Blind Willie McTell, Jimmie Rodgers, Howlin' Wolf,
Robert Johnson, Chuck Berry, Gillian Welch, and, most of all, exponents of 
traditional music such as Lead Belly, Doc Watson, and Jean Ritchie.

I am confident that this newest, unreleased album, is our best work yet and I
believe it fills a niche that no other artist, local or otherwise, inhabits.

---

Hello Sam,

It was a pleasure to meet you last Tuesday at the Bleakness show! 

Maura spoke very highly of you and encouraged me to reach out. My longtime musical project, Pop Empire, has a new album, fully recorded and mixed but not yet mastered, and I am seeking to gauge your interest in releasing it â€” or in any case, I would be very thankful for any guidance or suggestions you might have in finding an outlet for this work. I have released three full-length albums and two EPs as Pop Empire, but I have never approached any labels and each record has been self-released. The works have been well-received, but I have learned that promotion is not my strength! I feel very good about the work that we've done on this recording, and I want to pursue the most effective avenues available for sharing it.

You can hear the album at this private SoundCloud link:
https://soundcloud.com/pop-empire/sets/last-lights-off-the-black-west

---
