---
layout: post
---

I believe that confidence does not entail the desire to be a rockstar. It is not
reflected by arrogance nor braggadoccio.

I feel that our culture's proclivity to tolerate, coddle, and even celebrate 
the desire among artists to be famous and venerated as a genius is crass and
decadent. (Similar things could be said about athletes and actors.)

There is incredible art being made all the time,
which has always been made in every age, that does not receive a share of 
attention commensurate with its merit, with its ability to stir and cultivate
meaningful experiences in the people who receive it. So even though many works
of legitimate merit are made by those artists who seek jealously to keep 
attention on themselves, or feign to deserve veneration wherever they go,
there is no justification for this behavior.

The artist class, natively aligned with the people, has been easily subverted to
the cause of domination by lures of fame and luxury.

I don't desire significant fame or luxury, and I don't think I deserve more of
people's attention than they want to give me. However, I am confident that the
music which comes through me has great power to stir certain people's psyche, to
comfort them in sorrow and embellish their joy. Further, I believe that much of
this music is only likely to come through me — if it does not come through me,
it is not likely to come into the world at all. This is the only way in which,
in reality, the music could be called "mine". Because I value this music and its
power before anyone else has seen much value in it, or known of it at all, I 
feel it is my calling to usher it into the world and give it its best chance of
thriving sufficiently to benefit people.

Music is a continuous tradition spanning millennia of transmission and 
refinement of a marvelous suite of music-ways. No song is ever finished unless
it is truly a dead song. So the ultimate purpose of the songs that come through
me or any other artist is not to sit in a groove in a record on a shelf in a 
library, or to be copyrighted, but rather to inform and influence the practice 
of music. That is, the ultimate purpose of a song or musical composition is to 
be received, re-created, adapted, and transmitted again.

This is what I want for my own musical output — in other words, the goal is to
join the great conversation of music, which spans centuries behind and ahead of
us. Note that I myself am only necessary as a temporary vessel, and it is not 
necessary that I myself achieve any fame or wealth in the process of shepherding
the music into the sphere of interchange. *Soli Deo Gloria*.

The practical reality, of course, is that, because of the very significant 
amount of time and effort that it takes to bring a song from the seed of mother
nature's inspiration to sapling that stands above ground to a tree that can give
shelter, any musician must either be independently wealthy, have a wealthy 
patron, or make some money with their art. Moreover, practically every musical 
effort, even those that are ostensibly by a solo artist, involve collaboration.
Multiple people must work together to bring to life something that they all
comprehend by instinct and only in part. These people may very well have 
families or other dependents as well, whose lives must also be sustained and
nurtured in the midst of this effort.

When you start to crunch the numbers, given contemporary circumstances, it seems
that a musical project, long-term, needs to generate revenues of a few tens of
thousands of dollars to a few hundreds of thousands of dollars to be financially
self-sufficient. It's probably never necessary to generate more than a couple
million (annually) except in cases of very large groups or those that require
especially expensive tools (such as symphony orchestras).

Achieving this level of success could look different from one artist to another,
but in general it would seem to call for connecting to an active audience of
between ten or twenty thousand and a few hundred thousand people. A few thousand
very engaged audience members or even just a handful of wealthy patrons could
provide the same sustenance.

It's harder to say how many people are necessary to take a musical creation up
into the great conversation, to absorb it into their consciousness, adapt and
re-transmit it. In our current society, the vast majority of people are lovers 
of music, a considerable majority also sing or play an instrument to some
extent, while relatively few have any regular practice of public performance
or distribution of recordings, and a vanishingly small percentage are employed
full-time as musicians. A piece of music would probably need to be engaged by
some people in each of these categories to achieve the "participation in the 
conversation" that I am imagining. However, there is no set timeline on which
this must occur — it could take very long, much longer than a human lifetime.

If I could continue indefinitely through my life to cultivate music to come
through me, while feeding and sheltering myself and my family — and especially 
if I could meanwhile employ a handful of trusted friends with work that is 
fulfilling and sufficiently compensated — then I think I would be the most 
blessed person alive.

Yet the reality of this is harsh. I constantly envision the walls around me
closing in. Like so many other musicians who have been at their craft for many
years without seeing a breakthrough, anxiety, despair, insecurity and jealousy
are my constant companions. Actually, these are largely the same feelings that
turned me to music in the first place, when I found they could be effectively
combatted by drawing out the music that nature would grow inside me. However,
these years later, the demon who says that the dark feelings might win after all
has established a foothold in my mind. My ability to continue making and sharing
this music might collapse, in which case it would be very difficult to imagine
any hope or brightness in life.

Of course, most people have anxieties about something. Most of these relate to
our human needs. Yet this type of demon is found more often only in artists,
among whom it is endemic. Clearly, it has a tendency to create a positive 
feedback loop, a self-fulfilling prophecy. When you despair, there is no 
motivation to escape.

Reaching an active audience of a five thousand, fifty thousand, even five
hundred thousand is not grandiose — yet it does not happen automatically, and
it requires significantly more public attention than most people get. It is more
than many people are comfortable with, even many talented people, and so the 
people who achieve this skew towards the population who are unperturbed by 
greater than average fame, which includes the self-absorbed. In many jobs, a
person does not have to be well known at all to be successful. Even many 
independent artisans who do have to build a fanbase for their work do not 
require quite so many — an electrician or plumber could probably thrive with
only a few hundred loyal customers. But it is reasonable and healthy for a 
musical artist to seek a level of popularity on par with a small bar or
restaurant, a municipal magistrate, or a successful car wash.
