---
layout: post
tags: introspection, "crow cafe", syrups
---

There is abundant evidence that I am following an effective path to fruition.

There's Harris: Harris is objectively the most pleasant person ever to have in 
company, and she loves living with me. She is such a remarkable person and such
an ideal companion, and she is devoted to me. 

I own a home. True, I owe a hundred thousand dollars to the bank at this point,
but I have methodically improved the quality and security of my home year after
year.

I have removed essentially all of the impediments to my pursuit of my creative
endeavors, particularly music, besides lack of excess wealth. I am
understandably dubious about this last advantage anyways.

My primary work, while not affording me excess wealth, does leave me with 
meaningful time and mental energy to pursue the things I really want to do to 
enjoy my life and leave an imprint on the world. It also provides me a measure
of social fulfillment and creative stimulation, while it has the potential to
provide me with important opportunities and connections in the future, at least
towards the goal of opening a cafe/club of my own.

---

My community lacks a credible sober-first all-ages venue. My cafe/club could 
be that. How best do I aim to make consistent income to support that function?

---

### Orange Cardamom ###

Orange and cardamom make a simple yet indulgent pairing that is perfect for the
wintertime, traditionally the season when citrus is ripe and warming spices are
desirable to defy the cold weather.

Our Cardamom Orange syrup is derived from pure, natural ingredients — 
pressed orange oil, maceration of cardamom, a touch of vanilla, and just enough 
sweetness to let all the flavors shine.

Cardamom, one of the world's most precious spices, has a complex character with
an unmistakable expansive quality, invigorating like cinnamon but with less
overt heat, reminiscent of eucalyptus, richly floral like vanilla with a hint of 
pine. It has a citrus note of its own, and it blends fabulously with orange,
fusing into a new phenomenon with notes of dreamsicle and spice cake.