---
layout: post
---

### Social Anxiety

There was a time in my life when I realized that I experience social anxiety.
A period of a couple weeks or so wherein I became aware that an identifiable
bouquet of experiences and behaviors were familiar to me and had indeed been
affecting my life in mostly negative ways. I can look back before this time and
recognize foreshadowings of this realization, but my social anxiety remained
an entirely unobserved entity within my psyche, even if some of its effects were
observed. Since that time, it seems so obvious as to rarely warrant mention. The
experience of the transition between these mental worlds was significant enough
to prompt me to remember that mental state in between, as well as to consider
that there may always be more realizations that loom large in the unconscious.

It's all a part of that greater journey of awakening to self-knowledge. Around
the same time that I became aware of my social anxiety, a raft of foundational
tenets collected around me as well.

  - Humans are fundamentally social animals, and what is needed for their
    flourishing is rich social contact
  - My greatest desire, if not to be happy, is to experience meaning, and for
    meaning to flourish in the world
  - What is necessary for meaning, most fundamentally, is plurality of minds and
    a shared way of life
  - The greatest human tool for these ends, i.e. the experience and advancement
    of Meaning, is *honesty in communication*

---

Good and Evil hang in the balance, and they are both contingent on Life, which
is the far greater thing. Life is more aligned with the Good than the Evil but
this is only because Life has access to the ecstatic bliss of consciousness.
