---
layout: post
tags: truth
---

Who cares about the truth? should I?
------------------------------------

How can someone who is so right do something so wrong?

Most people, I suspect, do not care about truth so much as they care about being
accepted in a community. This seems quite natural too, for truth in general does
not have as much relevance for a human's survival as acceptance in a community.
These two goals — truth and acceptance — do not have to be at odds — but if they
are, the latter prevails in the heart's of most people most of the time.

The idea behind doctrines such as the Inner Light is that conscious reflection
or meditation will eventually lead the instinct to truth to prevail over the 
instinct to be accepted in community. It will lead the instinct to truth to 
prevail over many other instincts.

I think there is a postmodern impulse to decry the concept of reality as an
instrument of oppression. I think it would be more apt to think of it as the
battleground or territory in which oppression is applied — which is of course
something like the classical view. I think any humans who interact intellectually
have the instinct and innate power to generate a *reality*, while the 
"enlightened" occidental desire to congolmerate all realities into *one* 
ultimate reality may with fairness be viewed as suspiciously imperialistic.

Yet there seems to me to be a consistent tendency: when multiple people bring 
their realities together, and when the light of reason, honesty, and truth is
allowed to shine on all, their realities tend to converge, merging and expanding
to include all. On the other hand, as people live in separation, or in 
intellectual separation through any type of deceit or occultation, their
realities are prone to diverge.

