---
layout: post
---

### hemitonic chords

Some chords contain pitches separated by only one semitone — or, by octave
equivalence, a minor second, major seventh, or minor ninth. This is often
perceived as creating a dissonance which should be resolved in practice by
avoiding one of the chord tones, though this guidance is applied inconsistently.

In the case of a dominant eleventh chord — **G11** [`G-B-D-F-A-C`] — there is a
hemitonic interval (minor ninth) between B and C (third and eleventh). Many
composers will intend for one of these tones to be avoided, and since the 
eleventh is definitive of an eleventh chord, it is the third that has to go.
This usage seems to be somewhat common, but it is ambiguous and misleading, and
I deprecate it.

  - In other contexts, the third is considered one of the most critical chord 
  tones, as it (alongs with the seventh, if present) determines the underlying 
  "flavor" of the chord.
  - A chord with the third omitted in favor of the fourth (= eleventh) should be
  called a *suspended* chord: in the example above, **G9sus** would be the 
  appropriate symbol.
  - The premise that the minor ninth is inherently too dissonant is problematic
  to begin with. After all, a major seventh is enharmonically also a minor ninth,
  and even more troublesome, since its conflict is with the root of the chord,
  yet major seventh chords are considered perfectly acceptable. They are even
  accepted into the "major" chord family, which is (naively) supposed to be the 
  most consonant.

I suggest instead the guideline that chords may generally contain one hemitonic
interval, but two are too many for any standard chord (such chords could be 
described with alterations).

### which chord tones are implied by higher extensions?

In the example of an eleventh chord above, I used the convention that higher
chord extensions imply all of the stacked thirds below them: just as the seventh
chord includes the triad built of stacked thirds below it, the ninth chord is 
built by stacking another third on top of the seventh chord, and thus includes
all of the tones of the seventh chord; the eleventh chord is built likewise
by stacking another third on top of a ninth chord, the thirteenth by stacking a
third on top of an eleventh chord.

This convention is the way that the A note (ninth) got involved in the eleventh
chord in our example. In practice, the ninth is generally considered optional.
For reasons that I may articulate in more detail later, I recommend legitimizing
this practice by using a variant of the convention just described for chords
named with higher extensions (ninth, eleventh, and thirteenth chords). These 
chords should be presumed to include the namesake extension, as well as an
underlying seventh chord. This gives the exact same interpretation for ninth
chords as the convention above — only the meaning of the eleventh and thirteenth
chords are slightly altered. In this view, the eleventh chord includes the root,
third, fifth, seventh, and eleventh (= fourth), without implying the ninth.
Thus our example chord **G11** would contain [`G-B-D-F-C`].

Chords named by upper extensions therefore frequently specify a hemitonic 
relationship in the chord: minor ninth, dominant eleventh, dominant
and major thirteenth chords all contain an interval of a minor ninth.

### how many tones can a chord contain?

Conventional contemporary chord naming is capable of describing chords of up to
seven tones. Seven tone scales are the most common in contemporary as well as 
ancient western and near eastern practice, as well as the largest scales in 
regular use. (Five, six, and seven note scales seem to predominate.) Thus in
conventional contemporary theory, seven is the most notes a chord can contain
(a chord of eight or more notes, any composer would have to admit, is an
ungainly and unusual beast). While a keyboardist has ten available digits, the
most notes they can play at once in an agreeable voicing is typically only six
or seven. A guitar only has six strings — a bass guitar can add a seventh voice.

However, I have an intuition that it makes sense to limit the concept of chords
to five voices — or at least confine what I call "standard chords" to five notes
maximum. 
