---
layout: post
title: existence of the self
tags: philosophy hunches
---

[251015-free-will]({% link _posts/2025-10-15-free-will.md %})

  > how would you tell the difference between someone like us, as we perceive ourselves normally to be, who are born, live for a while, then die and cease to be, and someone who comes into and out of existence a half thousand times per second, billions of times over and over, and each time they return to existence in much the same form as they had before, but perhaps slightly different?

Suppose that identity is an illusion, that the self is an illusion, that the boundaries
between one person and all others and all of nature are illusions. Does this defy some
intuition that must be accounted for? Why is it that every experience that I have
seems confined to my own body, my own mind? If the boundaries are illusory, why can't
I experience — at least occasionally — the feelings, thoughts, sensations of another?

Well, who says I can't? that I don't? and what would you expect, if it were so?
If the memories and proclivities of an individual are accounted for by the state
of their brains and bodies and by their natural and social circumstances, then
anytime a given consciousness departs one person and enters another, that 
consciousness would know no better than to believe that it was and always had been
contained in the new person.

On the other hand, if memories and proclivities are what define an individual,
then it is quite clear that any normal person is in fact many people over the 
course of a life. This is at least as absurd as the premise we sought to disprove.

---

Is the "problem" of consciousness simply a problem of not respecting nature with
sufficient awe? The materialist position is untenable because it is always 
articulated with a "just", "merely", or "only": the mind is *just* the brain,
consciousness is *merely* an emergent phenomenon of matter. Materialists think
that the strength of their argument lies its simplifying power, and so they stress
this point. Non-materialists, whether religious or secular, see this as hand waving
and fundamentally flawed.

We cannot explain how the known forces of nature could
produce the phenomenon of consciousness. Some believe that theoretically we *could*
explain it, but our understanding has not progressed far enough yet. Others
believe that there is enough evidence to say that we *never* could explain it
through these types of description, even in some future scientific age.
The argument is that consciousness is something *categorically* different than
the types of things that physics, chemistry, biology describe, and yet we cannot
simply toss consciousness out altogether, because it is in fact the basis of
all our experience, all our knowledge, and therefore the basis of the natural
sciences as well.

This second part of the argument is crucial, because it is what is supposed to
distinguish consciousness and the particularly "hard" problem it presents from 
the general question of whether any abstraction *exists*. Does truth exist?
what about love? humanity? justice? evil? Does a center of gravity exist? or an orbit?
Is time real? what about months, years, centuries? Do tuesdays exist? Do numbers
exists? imaginary numbers too? Do words exist? Naturalistic explanations can go
some distance towards *explaining* or *describing* some of these things, and not
very far at all in explaining others — yet in all cases, they actually leave
the question of existence unanswered. A hardcore Cartesian could, therefore,
one presumes, doubt the existence of every single one of these abstractions —
but not the existence of the conscious self.

Wittgenstein already pointed out that the sleight of hand has already been 
performed here by the time we are asking these questions. Yet men have been 
unable to understand. What is it that you want explained? and what kind of
explanation would satisfy you?

(The inability to doubt the existence of the conscious self, to doubt
*cogito ergo sum*, seems to me to reflect a dreadful lack of imagination.)

Meanwhile, how do we properly orient ourselves towards such mysteries:
There is something rather than nothing. The universe, in dimensions of both 
space and time, is incomprehensibly vast in comparison to us. Magnets. Gravity.
Life. We are embarrassed by the scale of the mystery, of the wonder it ought
to inspire in us, and we are even weary of hearing about it. The people 
repeatedly turn away from god who saved and sustained them, because they really
just want to feel good, to do what they want and not be bothered about it.

I don't think consciousness is fundamentally a greater *problem* than that of 
any other abstraction — as long as we do not *assume* that the self exists,
because then we're begging the question. But this is as difficult for many
contemporary western minds, inculcated in a cult of the self, as it has been for 
many others (e.g. medieval western minds) to suspend the assumption that god exists.
Remember that words, even substantives (nouns), do not in general correspond to 
objects in the world — they are moves in various language games.

---

The thing that we tend to miss, when we think about identity, consciousness, the
self (how nice it would be to have a word to bundle up these concepts — the soul?)
is how overwhelmingly *similar* we humans are to each other and to many other
life-forms and how *interconnected* our lives and minds are with each other and
with our environments. This perceptual bias is precisely the thing which insists
on our giving some explanation for the soul. I suspect that a truly outside
observer — god, an angel, an alien — would find it much simpler in general to
represent us humans as a continuous substance, and explain our perception (illusion)
of individuality as an intermittent phenomenon which occurs under specific, 
limited conditions.

---

[200211-hunches]({% link _posts/2020-02-11-hunches.md %})

Some more hunches that I'm hesitating to draw the conclusions from:

  - I don't genuinely care about the opinions of almost anyone who is involved 
  in the Cincinnati music scene in any way. Their opinions don't inform mine,
  and they have vanishingly little impact on the long-term value of my own life
  and work. This includes my peers, as well as both established names who are 
  older than me and the younger hipsters who are devoting their time and energy
  to the "scene".
  - **KNOW YRSELF** is the most fruitful commandment
  - The things that are most true are not in general the things that are most
  universally agreed upon
