---
layout: post
title: preface for a collection of songs
tags: llotbw
---

### 2025-01-08

I should like to appear before you as Oz the Great and Terrible, manipulating the
levers and dials of your psyche with awesome power.
Songcraft, like it's children Playing an Instrument and Mixing Audio, is an art
of illusion.

My malevolent desire for control prevents me from maintaining the facade and 
forces me to pull back the curtain. I insist on tampering with the context in 
which you perceive these songs.

The essence of magic is moving past illusion.
It turns out I am just a lonely old man.

---

My discovery of Jekyll and GitHub pages this past Fall has precipitated an 
outpouring of creative energy, and I am extremely thankful. I have not felt this
excited about website building since my high school years, and I am reminded
of the encompassing intellectual project that a website can represent for me.

Composing a collection of documents in HTML, a digital tome or library, is an
intellectually satisfying long-term project for me.

I am reminded, too, that one of the most compelling reasons I comitted myself
to the study of and pursuit of excellence in *music* was the perception that I
would never grow bored in this endeavor. Intellectual boredom and a resultant
zig-zag path through life felt like something very much to be avoided. I believe,
looking back from this point in my thirty-sixth year, that I have so far avoided
this fate successfully. Yet I have lost some of my initial focus in lamenting
that my straight line has not carried as far as I would like it to have.

---

*2026-02-18*

## Preface

This book comprises a collection of lyrical specimens of the American Popular Style.
It maps out a small region of the country of song, not as a musical cartogropher would,
but like an amateur naturalist on a random walk through a meadow.
Along the way I have plucked flowers, taken samples of intriguing phenotypes from
here and from there.

Until they were coated in resin and pinned down in writing,
all ten of these specimens represent living examples of the fascinating behavior,
exhibited by practically all human communities, of *folk song* —
of passing on shared songs, both words and melodies,
while constantly adapting them, personalizing them, swapping out parts among them,
and injecting fresh inspirations into old memories.
More particularly, the direct sources of this collection are spread across
a stretch of the Anglophone world from Scotland to Louisiana, with the epicenter
lying somewhere in the Appalachian mountains. Those sources themselves refer
back to earlier sources from the same areas and from many others, including
Western Africa, Italy, and the Middle East.

The term *folk music* can be somewhat confounding.
We have been bewitched by our language into seeing differences among styles or genres
of music where none exist in reality.
Since around the beginning of the 20th century, there has been a single dominant
musical style in American culture: the American Popular Style, which today could
also be called the Imperial Popular Style.
Its consituent genres, such as rock, folk, jazz, rhythm & blues, soul, gospel,
rap, techno, etc., are just marketing terms.

When we refer to *folk music* here, we are using the term in a more basic sense —
it is the music of the folk. The folk are exactly the same as the people.
It's one of many instances where English doubles or triples up on words with the
same meaning, derived from different lexicons. *Folk* is the word from the 
Anglo-Saxon stock, cousin to the German *Volk* (pronounced "folk"). *People*,
on the other hand, is derived from Latin via Old French. The same Latin root
gives us the words *population* and *popular*. Popular music is the people's music,
folk music is the people's music, and as "pop" is short for "popular",
so *pop music* is, in truth, *folk music*.

In the era of the American cultural empire,
the term "pop music" has become so heavily associated with the commercial music
industry that it's easy to lose sight of its original meaning.
The commercializing influences affecting the Imperial Popular Style are a topic well
beyond the scope of this text. They do however warrant this passing acknowledgment, 
as it is plausible that capitalistic interests would seek not just to profit 
off the folk singing tradition of the people, the subjects of their cultural empire,
but also to control that tradition. It is vital that the people remember that
pop music belongs to and originates from them, not from the elites.

---


  - collection of specimens, like a random walk through a meadow
  - pop = folk
  - final three songs?
    - more recent
    - should be considered for use & re-use in the folk cycle?